In this video we write a program for finding the sum of first natural numbers.
First of all, i will explain what does it mean.
What is the problem.
Then I'll explain to you how we can take an approach how we can design a procedure for it.
Then we will see the flow chart.
I have already written it.
Then we will write the program.
So let us understand what is sum of First n natural number.
See the natural numbers starts from 1 onwards.
So 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 up to 9 means 1- 9 First 9 natural numbers.
I want to find the sum.
So id I add all of them it is 45.
So there is a direct formula for this one.
That is the formula is n into n plus one by 2 in one of the video we have seen this one right.
So this is sum of the first n national numbers but here we don't want to use the formula.
We want to use a loop and write this one.
So we want to add the numbers one by one by ourselves and do it.
So you want to do it using loop.
So first you do it using pen and paper.
First you do it on paper, directly you cannot write the program directly you cannot, unless and until
you have already seen it already you know it.
Then you can type it but first time when you are solving a problem, this is a basic problem.
Do it on paper do some paperwork.
So how these numbers can be added.
So I have done the paper work here so I'll explain this one first.
Number one.
OK.
One is I.
One is added With what initially.
Okay.
Let it be zero.
We got one.
The next number is 2.
So this in this one we are having two.
We got three the next number is three.
So in this three in this three we will add three we get the result six then in the sixth we will
add four we get 10 and this at 10 we will add five we get 15 so on.
So it means we have to go on accumulating this number or adding this number to something so that we
are going on getting the sum in the next number.
And we have the big the numbers from 1 2 3 4 5 up to the given number 9.
We want 9 up to 9 we have 2.
So this is looking like a counter that we have seen in the previous video.
Yes.
So I can take it as i and initially i started from 1 then this I is getting added to something
every time.
So for that I will take one more thing that is sum and initially zero.
So what is this sum.
And in that what is I did I make does it.
And then when the result is  stored see this two are added
And this result is taken again in the next step.
So this result should go into sum only sum was initially zero then sum became one then sum
became three, sum became six so on.
So it is getting added to sum.
So I should write like this sum assign some plus I .
that's it, so that  statement I got, from this data from the observation we got that statement.
Now you are learning right.
So the next time when you have similar problems some other thing then you can figure out this one.
So you should first put the values on paper then you can observe this one.
So now we got the idea that we have to take I, I should be increasing by 1 every time and it should reach
up to I N that is 9 and every dime that I should be added to sum.
So what are the repeating steps.
Take I added and increase I added increase I added increment i added.
So these are the steps.
So already you have written a flow chart here.
Let us study that flow chart.
Start take a number then.
Initially I is one and sum is zero.
This is one and this is zero.
Then if I use less than equal to n we have to add till this number right.
If it is true then we have to do two things first add then later on increment i, first add then increment
see  first is this column.
Second this this column may not matter it doesn't matter.
whatever the column is but who is executing first this one, addition has done first then I
is increasing, additions is done first then increase then again repeat again repeat as long as condition
is true if the condition is false we the sum put in some and stop.
So this is the procedure now we have a flowchart looking at a flow chart we will write a program.
So already you have written a few useful statements I have N and I and sum look at the variables we
need and I and some we need three variables.
So I have taken three variables.
First of all we should read n so already i have finished it and I should start from one end, sum in zero
sum I have made it as zero I should start from one.
This is one thing then next is condition and I is incresed
So these three things together is for loop. Yes I can write a loop for I assign one i is less equal
to n I plus plus say this statement is finished.
Condition is finished and this is finished now what is remaining inside the loop only this statement
is remaining inside the loop.
So let us write on that statement inside the loop some assign some plus i
than, once it is out of the loop we have to print sum.
So i will give a message here sum of first  natural number is sum of n numbers is in short I am
writing is I got a  sum in this variable sum, then return 0 OK return 0 and end of main function
that's it.
So that flowchart is converted into a program now few more thing i want show you instead of using for loop
loop if you say no I will use a while loop you can write while loop also but it is better because for
loop you can understand that I is starting from 1 and stopping at n you can clearly understand that
other wise you can change it to for loop  also I will show how to change it and one more time this  sum assign
sum +I,  this is there.
So sum is on the right hand side also.
So already we have seen compound that is arithmetic operator, assignment operator so we can
use that one here so compound assignment operator we can use. sum plus assign i.
I already have discussed about this one so you can use this not instead for loop if you want to use while
loop then, one thing I have to do here is I should take i as one here only, means before this I should
right then instead of for I will write while in here, then what is the condition as long as i is less than n
then what about I plus plus inside the loop I have to do it so inside the for there are three
things I will write them here once again I assigned one and i is  less equal to n I plus plus see this
portion is gone here and this is as it is.
And this plus plus is inside the loop.
So this is using while loop right.
So the same thing you can do it using while loop also even you can do it using dowhile loop also.
So what I have to say here is that you can use any loop you want but for means you should use when you
know the number of times of reputation, while when you don't want a number of times of repetition. it is
readable.
if anybody's reading he can understand that and that's it.
So that's all in this video.
So there is a coding exercise available level for this one you finish that coding exercise and also
a write up program by your self, in encoding exercise.
You have to write down this portion.
So using for loop you have to find the sum right.
You don't have to  the input like this.
So if you read the coding exercise description you can understand it.
do the coding excersice to say that and also write this complete program by yourself.
That's all.